"CSlib documentation"_Manual.html

Run the test apps :h3

After you have "built the CSlib"_buildlib.html and "built the test
apps"_buildapps.html, you can run them by following the directions in
the "quick tour"_quick.html, which explains the command-line arguments
used by both the client and server apps.  Both the "quick
tour"_quick.html and "running client/server apps"_quick.html sections
explain the syntax for launching both apps together, either from two
terminal windows or a single window, or on a parallel machine.

We explain some additional details here.

:line

You can perform a series of test runs via the shell scripts provided
in the test dir:

% cd cslib/test
% sh Run_serial.sh      # for serial apps
% sh Run_parallel.sh    # for parallel apps
% sh Run_mixed.sh       # for mixed apps (language, serial/parallel, etc)
% sh Run_simple.sh      # for simple apps :pre

which first build the CSlib, then build a subset of test apps, then
perform a series of runs in serial or parallel using all the
langauges.

As explained in "this section", after a successful run both apps
should exit cleanly, the error count should be zero, and the effective
messaging bandwidth of the run should be shown.

:line

You can also run any pairing of a single client and single server app
together from the command line.  Note that the two apps can be in
different languages, the two apps can be run on different processor
counts, or one can be serial and the other parallel.  For the latter,
you must use mode = "file" or "zmq"; modes "mpi/one" and "mpi/two"
require both apps be parallel.  The Run_mixed.sh scripts gives several
examples of this.

The "quick tour"_quick.html section gives many examples of the syntax
for running a client and server app from two terminal windows.  The
*.sh scripts illustrate the syntax for running both apps from one
window, by simply appending a "&" character to run the first app in
the background.

Note that for mode = "mpi/one", a single mpirun command launches both
apps, so this mode must be used from one terminal window.

Note that for mode = "mpi/two", each app must be launched by a mpirun
command, even if they run on a single processor.  This is so that MPI
can figure out how to connect both MPI processes together to exchange
MPI messages between them.

:line

If the Python apps fail to launch or give errors, see "this
section"_python.html for details on how to setup Python to work with
the CSlib on your machine.

:line

The simple apps do not use the CSlib and may be useful to test if the
ZeroMQ (ZMQ) library and MPI library work as expected on your system.
You can run two of them like this, from different terminal windows.

% simple_client_zmq 10 &       # 10 = # of times to loop
% simple_server_zmq :pre

% mpirun -np 3 simple_client_mpi_two 10 &    # 10 = # of times to loop
% mpirun -np 4 simple_server_mpi_two :pre

And the third like this, from one terminal window

% mpirun -np 3 simple_client_mpi_one 10 : -np 4 simple_server_mpi_one :pre

Again, 10 = # of times to loop.

The simple ZMQ example is adpated from the "ZeroMQ guidebook web
page"_http://zguide.zeromq.org/page:all (C version).
